hi you guys what is up and welcome back
to my channel so today I want to talk
about how i went about losing muscle and
my thighs and before i even talk about
the how to's and everything i really
really want to emphasize that I love my
thighs I love my body and if you follow
me on Instagram you would have seen this
post that I posted a few months ago
where I was working on losing muscle and
my thighs which I can't believe that
that was even a goal I ever had I mean I
can but my whole thing is about building
muscle however given that I used to be a
very competitive fencer which is a quad
dominant sport and I also tend to be
quad dominant anyways and I retired from
fencing
I was sort of left with the kind of body
of a fencer which I loved for 18 years
of my life I cherish it I was proud of
it I felt sexy in it but it was just
time for me to move on and try something
new and experiments and so I thought
okay I want to have a more asymmetrical
body whereby my upper body is a little
bit more stronger and my lower body is a
little bit less strong so that it just
appears a little bit more yeah just a
little more balanced and healthy the
amount of muscle at ahead of my thighs
was the amount of muscle you need as a
very very competitive athlete and the
sport of fencing I mean top level you
need a ton of muscle for that sport so
it wasn't serving me it wasn't serving a
role anymore and on the emotional side
of things it was actually just a
constant daily reminder that I wasn't
fencing anymore which was my choice but
for something and I did first my whole
life and that my identity was pretty
close to I wanted to have the
opportunity to have a new identity and
kind of grow and change so I thought I'm
gonna try this fun thing where I have a
different kind of body recomposition and
I'm gonna lose some muscle and fat in my
thighs and I'm gonna build my upper body
so it's not that I even have like
stick-thin legs or anything like that
and I wasn't trying to be thin I
him still thick girl I was kind of born
with quad dominant just quads that very
are stimulated very easily and can grow
very easily and you know my thighs
always touched as a young girl I just
always had muscle in my thighs I still
do and I don't want to lose my thighs or
my quads I really really like being fake
I like being built and muscular while
also being lean and having a low lower
body fat percentage to show off the
muscle that's just what I like and what
I think is ascetic and something that
has come up for me is that a lot of you
guys have been asking especially when it
puts that pic but just recently people
are asking as petite women how can I cut
down my thighs a little bit how can I
just get rid of some of the muscle or
fat that's there so today this video is
going to be all about how you can go
about losing a little bit of fat or
muscle in your thighs as a petite woman
if you feel like that is the area that
you're most insecure about or you feel
like you want to work on that always ask
yourself why you're doing something why
it's important for you to work on your
body if you think that it's going to
bring you any type of mental happiness
to look a certain way
unfortunately this video is not about
that it's really just about
experimentation and fun and feeling
strong in your body and learning about
your body as as a response to a certain
stimulus cardio strength training so
that I just challenge you and I just
prompt you to think about why you want
to get rid of muscle in your thighs or
fat in your thighs and everyone always
has a right for any kind of goal for
their body you have a right to have
whatever kind of goal you want that's
something that when I finally announced
that I was going to try to lose muscle
my thighs I was actually pretty nervous
and I felt like the goal wasn't
legitimate or wasn't okay and I realized
that's so silly people have goals all
over the map and you should be able to
have whatever will you want and I that
means I do too and of course I'm not
trying to Lotus any more muscle in my
thighs at this point but I did lose a
few pounds of mom
there so if you are interested in losing
muscle in your thighs we are gonna jump
into I'm gonna just run you through some
steps and things that you will have to
take to get to that point so I will
start off by saying that this process I
hired a coach for because never in my
life and I actually wanted to lose
muscle so I hired a coach because this
is what I knew if you want to lose
muscle that is by nature catabolic which
means you're breaking down tissue I knew
that I would have to be in a deficit I'd
have to eat a lot fewer calories and I
was used to and if you guys watching any
of my videos you know that when you eat
less calories you actually slow the
metabolism so this wasn't just a like a
couple months where I was just gonna do
more cardio this was an intentional okay
I'm going to be slowing down my
metabolism a little bit to break down
and get rid of some of the muscle and
then afterwards I'm gonna have to
restore my metabolism and build it back
up again so you can't forget that stuff
as a petite woman you can't forget the
stuff that comes after going through a
deficit a period of time when you're in
a deficit so the first thing I want to
talk about is being in a deficit
calorically and your nutrition also
through the cardio that you're going to
be doing so the three main ways that I
achieve my body weight composition is
from my diet nutrition from my cardio
and from my strength training so with
nutrition you will have to be in a
deficit meaning eating fewer calories
per day that your maintenance level than
your metabolism in order to lose the
muscle I never recommend that petites
diet because it's not sustainable but if
you have a very specific reason for
dieting like I did and a very specific
amount of time and you have a plan for
keeping it sustainable and restoring
your metabolism after you go through it
and maybe you have some support like a
coach like even I am a coach with many
years of experience and I thought okay
got to do this right I'm gonna get some
extra support so with the diet it's not
just eating fewer calories it's also
making sure those calories are really
really high-quality sources of
nutrient-dense foods when I went on my
diet I guess it was a diet it's probably
the only one that I didn't
holy I mean I of course we've talked
about this back in the day I tried to
sconce all that but I don't do that
anymore so this was really the first
time where I was like going to try to
eat and did successfully eat in a
caloric deficit for an extended period
of time so eating wise you should be
consuming
a high protein diet you want to maintain
as much muscle as possible in the rest
of your body and lose as much fat as you
can when you go through a diet you were
going to lose muscle and I was trying to
lose a little bit of muscle mass but
also fat comes off so when you're in a
deficit you don't if you eat a low
protein diet you're encouraging muscle
loss as well and I was trying to build
my upper body at the time so make sure
that if you go into a deficit you're
still getting really really nice quality
high quality sources of protein such as
chicken fish fish such as cod and salmon
those are great options if you want to
have ground turkey have that be the the
main thing at each meal so that you stay
full and you're still promoting keeping
the muscle tissue I do need to also tell
you guys you cannot spot reduce fat or
muscle really you can't do it what you
can do is encourage your body through
being in a deficit through your
nutrition and your your fitness levels
you can encourage your bodies to lose
muscle and you cannot stimulate certain
muscles while stimulating other ones in
order to encourage the muscle loss there
so as an example I still a little
squatted about once a week very low
weight higher rep more as like a cardio
thing but I pretty much like laid off a
lot of leg work I shouldn't say that I
didn't I just laid off of quad work I
still did some I still did some
squatting I didn't stop entirely I still
want muscle there but then I worked a
lot on my upper body I was lifting three
days a week on my upper body because I
wanted to build muscle and my upper body
and lose muscle at my lower body so in
terms of nutrition you want to make sure
you have all the protein that you need
about a palm or it really depends on the
individual but if you have a Palmer
protein at each meal or more you should
be okay I made sure that I was very very
hydrated so that
Winslow's even further I was drinking
and I still drink about a gallon of
water a day I also made sure to get my
healthy fats in and still have a
balanced meals like I made in the last
video I like to balance my meals with
carbs fats and protein so I made sure I
had enough carbs too however when I was
going down into a deficit we did it very
gradual so over the course of about
eight weeks we decreased my calories and
this is gonna be different for everyone
because everyone's metabolism is in a
different place for us petites our
metabolisms are around 1,200 or about
there so going into a deficit might mean
that you've dropped a little bit low I
did not drop below about 1400 calories
because my metabolism was already pretty
high luckily I was at about 1,600 so we
were able to drop it down to about 1400
over eight weeks so gradually
incrementally cutting down the calories
keeping a really clean diet of really
good protein sources and vegetables and
not you know eating a lot of processed
foods or dessert or anything yes I was
sometimes hungry but for the most part I
was pretty satiated just because if you
if you're eating a really really good
diet of high quality foods you're gonna
be pretty satiated and I wasn't in an
extreme deficit we did it really really
slowly two months was a pretty long time
to like gradually shave off some muscle
so nutrition first you're going to have
to be in a caloric deficit and nutrition
will help you do that
second of all the cardio people ask me
how much cardio did you do to get this
it's funny because these are all the
things that I discourage petite women
from doing if they're trying to get in
shape however this is just very specific
to losing muscle in the thighs or fat in
the thighs to all however this was more
tailored to muscle because you could
still lose a lot of fat at your
maintenance level you wouldn't
necessarily have to go into a steep
deficit the cardio aspect of this was
this is not what I recommend unless your
goal is that you're specifically really
trying to lose muscle mass
sighs I had I was doing a lot of low
intensity steady-state cardio so that
was incline treadmill walking for me I
was walking about 12.5 in clients that's
125 percent incline on the treadmill for
at about 2.7 miles an hour so like a
walk for we increased this number over
time so we started off with just a
couple 20 maybe it was like 20-minute
sessions a week and then I increased up
to 200 minutes by the end of 8 weeks I
was at 200 minutes so if you're creating
a plan for yourself look at an 8 week
span increase the amount of cardio do
not do 200 minutes out of nowhere that's
going to mess up your metabolism mess up
your body it's gonna be too much of a
shock lose too much stress hormones so
if you're looking at your cardio look at
an 8 week plan and incremental e
increase the number of minutes a part of
your doing until you're starting 0 and
you end at 200 and that is the phase of
when you're really going to be breaking
down the muscle tissue that's where
cardio is important cardio also helps
you get into a more of a deficit that's
why I did not have to lower my calories
below for 1400 really important we
manipulate our our calories not just
through our intake but also through our
expenditure through exercise so when you
increase your cardio that's a tool for
you to be able to eat more calories but
still if you're in you can still be in a
deficit so I was able to get just enough
nutrition to be working on my upper body
it was like the perfect balance that we
struck with my coach why why I was also
in a slight deficit and doing more
cardio to encourage the catabolic effect
of exercise on my thighs she shed off
the muscle over time in a healthy way
also I did weightlifting about 4 to 5
days a week I did two leg days and 3
upper body days so it was a split split
training and at that time like I said I
was really really really working on
getting my upper body more built
and my lower body I was still exercising
I still want to retain muscle right like
this is not something to be to happen in
a week or to try to lose all this muscle
in a short amount of time I really
wanted to do it right and rebalance my
body and in the healthiest way possible
so I was still lifting with my lower
half of my body make sure I stick
maintained my athleticism and everything
and that is what allowed me to achieve
that over time I lost about 4 pounds
during this time most of it probably
muscle and a little bit of fat and
overall right when I kind of was happy
with where I was with my thighs and I
had lost a good amount and the thighs I
feel like this is where I am today is
still thick but it's where I naturally
sit more or less and I'm not fencing
anymore so say you've achieved your
lower body recomposition you've lost
some muscle in your thighs and fat you
cannot stay where you are at that point
this is really really important that you
recover from this diet properly so if
you have just gone through a diet you
were doing lots of cardio 200 minutes a
party over a week and by the way I
should have said I broke that up into
increments so the most I would do is a
40 minute walk on the treadmill some of
it was about 15 minutes or 10 minutes of
hit Sprint's on the treadmill only one
of those maximum per week the rest of it
was low intensity steady states will
really emphasize the fat and muscle loss
and muscle breakdown so once you get to
that point where you're happy you don't
want to spend any more time in that diet
it's just not going to be good for your
metabolism as petite and you will have a
negative result you'll end up putting it
back on if you stay that low so then my
coach and I embarked on a reverse diet
so that's when you incrementally
increase your calories I'm still lifting
a lot doing moderate cardio I pull it
back on the cardio so it was a lot a lot
less crazy because that's not a
lifestyle that was definitely not
I live where I'd suggest for anyone and
builds my calories over the next about
another eight-week period up to 2,000
calories and this is at this point I was
the leanest I've probably ever been I
was just super shredded because at that
point after coming off of a deficit my
type of metabolism was slowed by
increasing my calories slowly and
lifting weights and eating really clean
I was able to speed up the metabolism
tremendously so my metabolism your
metabolism is not static you can change
it so my new metabolism my new BMR was
actually about 2,000 calories I had
raised it so there's no exact science to
it you cannot know without being in a
lab exactly where your metabolism is but
however you've been consistently eating
for a while that's where your metabolism
is gonna be so if you've been dieting
your metabolism is gonna be low if
you've been increasing your calories
it's going to be a little bit higher if
you just increase your calories without
working out and you're in a surplus and
you're not putting the calories anywhere
you will just gain weight in the form of
fat what you want to encourage when
you're going through a reverse diet is
to gain weight in the form of muscle or
to stay where you are getting some
muscle and you use cardio to continue to
see fat loss so where I am today I still
feel happy with where I'm I went through
that last fall into the winter and I'm
no longer trying to die or anything I'm
actually getting my calories back up
right now I just had the flu a few weeks
ago so I'm trying to get my calories up
to the 2,000 again and I'm feeling
really lean I'm feeling really good in
my body so I hope that this helped you
understand a little bit more behind the
scenes of how I went through a body
recomposition in my lower thighs if you
have any questions about how to do this
yourself and you're not sure I would say
start start looking at your nutrition
start looking at how much cardio you're
doing and make sure that if you do go
down this road that you have a plan for
getting retells and back up afterwards
because I would not recommend this to
petite women in general it will slow
down your metabolism generally we don't
want to lose muscle we really need
muscle it's very precious
women especially us so if you guys have
any questions at all please leave me a
comment below and I'll talk to you guys
really soon have a great rest of your
weekend and yeah bye you guys